[{'content': u"Pop punk (also known as punk pop and other names) is a fusion genre that combines elements of punk rock with pop music, to varying degrees.\n\nIt is not clear when the term pop punk was first used, but pop-influenced punk rock had been around since the 1970s; performed by bands such as the Ramones, Buzzcocks, The Jam, The Undertones, and Generation X. Bad Religion, who started in 1980, were another early band to play the genre, and some consider them godfathers of pop punk. In the mid-1990s, Southern California-based pop punk bands achieved worldwide commercial success, and the genre's association with that area has led some to the term SoCal sound.\n\nExamples of breakthrough pop punk records are the 1994 multi-platinum albums Dookie by Green Day and Smash by The Offspring and most prominently the 1999 multi-platinum album Enema of the State by Blink-182.\n\nFrom the mid-1990s onwards, some bands associated with the genre have been described as faux-punk, mall punk, pseudo-punk, bubblegum punk or surf punk.", 'name': u'Pop Punk', 'summary': u'Pop punk (also known as punk pop and other names) is a fusion genre that combines elements of punk rock with pop music, to varying degrees.\n\nIt is not clear when the term pop punk was first used, but pop-influenced punk rock had been around since the 1970s; performed by bands such as the Ramones, Buzzcocks, The Jam, The Undertones, and Generation X. Bad Religion, who started in 1980, were another early band to play the genre, and some consider them godfathers of pop punk.'}, {'content': u"Boy band is a name applied to some pop music groups in the 90s. Such a band usually consisted of 4 or 5 young men (early 20s or even teens) in which all the members performed as singers and dancers and the choreography was a vital part of videos and live shows. Boy bands usually recorded fast dance songs and romantic ballads appealing to young female audiences. The forerunners of the boy band style were New Kids on the Block and Take That and it was later popularised by groups such as Backstreet Boys, N'Sync, Boyzone and Westlife.\n\n.", 'name': u'Boybands', 'summary': u"Boy band is a name applied to some pop music groups in the 90s. Such a band usually consisted of 4 or 5 young men (early 20s or even teens) in which all the members performed as singers and dancers and the choreography was a vital part of videos and live shows. Boy bands usually recorded fast dance songs and romantic ballads appealing to young female audiences. The forerunners of the boy band style were New Kids on the Block and Take That and it was later popularised by groups such as Backstreet Boys, N'Sync, Boyzone and Westlife.\n\n."}, {'content': u'New jack swing is a hybrid style popular from the late-1980s into the mid-1990s, which fuses the rhythms, samples and production techniques of hip-hop with the urban contemporary sound of R&B. It uses mellifluously soulful solo or harmonizing vocals sung over rhythms and "street" beats derived from urban musical influences.\n\nNew jack swing did not take up the trend of using sampled beats, and instead created beats using the then-new SP1200 and Roland 808 drum machines to lay an "insistent beat under light melody lines and clearly enunciated vocals." Encyclopedia Britannica states that the "key producers" were Kenneth Brian "Babyface" Edmonds and Teddy Riley. New Jack Swing continue to be successful until about 1997. Afterwards, it went underground as it waned in the mainstream. In the mid 2000s, a New Jack Swing revival started. Since then, some of the music styles\' artists have released new albums. By the 2010s, remixes of popular songs from the 2000s and 2010s in the New Jack Swing sound have started to pop up on such sites as YouTube. ', 'name': u'New Jack Swing', 'summary': u'New jack swing is a hybrid style popular from the late-1980s into the mid-1990s, which fuses the rhythms, samples and production techniques of hip-hop with the urban contemporary sound of R&B. It uses mellifluously soulful solo or harmonizing vocals sung over rhythms and "street" beats derived from urban musical influences.\n\nNew jack swing did not take up the trend of using sampled beats, and instead created beats using the then-new SP1200 and Roland'}, {'content': u'\nRhythm and blues is a term describing popular African American music that originated in the 1940s. The term was originally used by record companies to describe recordings marketed predominantly to urban African Americans, at a time when "urbane, rocking, jazz based music with a heavy, insistent beat" was becoming more popular.\n\nThe term has subsequently had a number of shifts in meaning. In the early 1950s and beyond, the term rhythm and blues was frequently applied to blues records. Starting in the 1950s, after this style of music contributed to the development of rock and roll, the term "R&B" became used to refer to music styles that developed from and incorporated electric blues, as well as gospel and soul music. By the 1970s, rhythm and blues was used as a blanket term for soul and funk. In the 1980s, a newer style of R&B developed, known as contemporary R&B.\n\nFor Rhythm & blues in its original context, see http://www.last.fm/tag/rhythm%20and%20blues', 'name': u'RnB', 'summary': u'\nRhythm and blues is a term describing popular African American music that originated in the 1940s. The term was originally used by record companies to describe recordings marketed predominantly to urban African Americans, at a time when "urbane, rocking, jazz based music with a heavy, insistent beat" was becoming more popular.\n\nThe term has subsequently had a number of shifts in meaning. In the early 1950s and beyond, the term rhythm and blues was frequently applied to blues records.'}, {'content': u"Glam metal, pop metal or hair metal is a sub-genre of rock music that arose in the late 1970s and early 1980s in the United States. It was a dominant genre in popular rock music throughout the 1980s starting in 1983. It has hard rock/heavy metal guitar riffs and solos, upbeat pop melodies and catchy, poppy choruses and lyrics about stuff like love, sex and passion. Often confused as a fashion, the look of glam metal was bright colored makeup, red or punk lipstick, painted nails, long and really fluffy hair, headbands and skin-tight denim and leather or crazy costumes. The style was pioneered by Quiet Riot with their album named Metal Health which was sold in 1983 and got lots of popularity. Other glam metal bands include Poison, Ratt, Bon Jovi, LA Guns and Kix. M\xf6tley Cr\xfce first began as simply heavy metal but became glam metal with their album titled Theatre of Pain. The genre lost all its popularity in 1991 when grunge/alternative rock bands like Nirvana and Soundgarden came into the mainstream. Today, some bands have brought back the glam metal style. Some of these bands are Black Veil Brides, who originally were melodic metalcore but went glam metal with their second album named Set the World on Fire with songs like Rebel Love Song and Love Isn't Always Fair. Other bands are Steel Panther and The Darkness. Blessed By a Broken Heart, one of these bands sometimes fused glam metal with metalcore. Falling in Reverse, another one of these bands, have also played easycore. Some bands in glam metal have been mislabeled as glam metal for their look or for when they were popular. Some of these bands were Guns 'N Roses, who were simply hard rock. Another is Twisted Sister, who aren't upbeat or poppy at all, sound more like bands like Ozzy Osbourne and Dio and don't even have any romantic or sexual lyrics and are just metal. KISS is another one. However, they were glam metal from 1983-1989.\n\nThe genre was also referred to, often by detractors, as hair metal. This term was popularized by MTV in the 1990s and derives from the tendency amongst most bands to style their long hair in a feminine tendency.\nHowever, today the term is used in a non-derogatory sense.\n\nThe genre has enjoyed revivals since the beginning of the new millennium, with a lot of new bands especially in Sweden, Finland and the US.", 'name': u'Hair Metal', 'summary': u'Glam metal, pop metal or hair metal is a sub-genre of rock music that arose in the late 1970s and early 1980s in the United States. It was a dominant genre in popular rock music throughout the 1980s starting in 1983. It has hard rock/heavy metal guitar riffs and solos, upbeat pop melodies and catchy, poppy choruses and lyrics about stuff like love, sex and passion. Often confused as a fashion, the look of glam metal was bright colored makeup, red or punk lipstick'}, {'content': u'"Christian" is not a genre, but rather is a descriptor to music with lyrics containing Christian themes. Christian artists perform in all genres, and are often recognized as mainstream artists such as Switchfoot, Jars of Clay, Burlap to Cashmere, The Devil Wears Prada, Haste the Day  and others. ', 'name': u'Christian', 'summary': u'"Christian" is not a genre, but rather is a descriptor to music with lyrics containing Christian themes. Christian artists perform in all genres, and are often recognized as mainstream artists such as Switchfoot, Jars of Clay, Burlap to Cashmere, The Devil Wears Prada, Haste the Day  and others. '}, {'content': u'Heavy metal (often referred to simply as metal) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and the United States. With roots in blues-rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness. Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally associated with masculinity and machismo.\n\nThe first heavy metal bands such as Led Zeppelin, Black Sabbath and Deep Purple attracted large audiences, though they were often critically reviled, a status common throughout the history of the genre. In the mid-1970s Judas Priest helped spur the genre\u2019s evolution by discarding much of its blues influence; Mot\xf6rhead introduced a punk rock sensibility and an increasing emphasis on speed. Bands in the New Wave of British Heavy Metal such as Iron Maiden followed in a similar vein. Before the end of the decade, heavy metal had attracted a worldwide following of fans known as \u201cmetalheads\u201d or \u201cheadbangers\u201d.\n\nIn the 1980s, glam metal became a major commercial force with groups like M\xf6tley Cr\xfce. Underground scenes produced an array of more extreme, aggressive styles: thrash metal broke into the mainstream with bands such as Metallica, while other styles like death metal and black metal remain subcultural phenomena. Since the mid-1990s, popular styles such as nu metal, which often incorporates elements of grunge and hip hop; and metalcore, which blends extreme metal with hardcore punk, have further expanded the definition of the genre. ', 'name': u'Heavy Metal', 'summary': u'Heavy metal (often referred to simply as metal) is a genre of rock music that developed in the late 1960s and early 1970s, largely in the United Kingdom and the United States. With roots in blues-rock and psychedelic rock, the bands that created heavy metal developed a thick, massive sound, characterized by highly amplified distortion, extended guitar solos, emphatic beats, and overall loudness. Heavy metal lyrics and performance styles are generally associated with masculinity and machismo.'}, {'content': u'Dancehall is a type of Jamaican popular music which developed in the late 1970s, initially as a more sparse and less political and religious variant of reggae than the roots style that had dominated much of the 1970s.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, digital instrumentation became more prevalent, changing the sound considerably, with digital dancehall (or "ragga") becoming increasingly characterized by faster rhythms with little connection to earlier reggae rhythms. Modern dancehall is also known as bashment.\n\n"Dancehall" now refers to the digitised version of raggamuffin reggae, which is itself an ancestor of hip-hop music, and has since been influenced and re-combined with that style.\n\nDancehall reggae traditionally features a vocalist (referred to as a "Deejay") reciting lyrics in thick Jamaican English over a "riddim". "Riddims" ("rhythm" in standard English) are themselves quite famous, and a common practice in the style is to release an album featuring the same riddim being voiced by a number of performers.\n\nWhile most dancehall performers are male, a small number of female vocalists have appeared in recent years, often performing their lyrics from an expressly feminist point of view in counterpoint to the notoriously male-chauvinist style.\n\nThere are essentially two types of dancehall deejay. The more common is the rough-voiced male vocalist, often describing his sexual prowess and lyrical abilities. Vocalists of this type often engage in verbal warfare with their enemies, as can be seen in the feud between Beenie Man and Bounty Killer.\nA second type is the smooth-voiced "singjay" (as they are sometimes known). Still performing over the traditional riddims, this male performer is more inspired by RnB music and in fact sings, rather than chants, his lyrics, such as Mr Vegas. Occasionally, as in the duo of Chaka Demus & Pliers, the two performer types combine.', 'name': u'Dancehall', 'summary': u'Dancehall is a type of Jamaican popular music which developed in the late 1970s, initially as a more sparse and less political and religious variant of reggae than the roots style that had dominated much of the 1970s.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, digital instrumentation became more prevalent, changing the sound considerably, with digital dancehall (or "ragga") becoming increasingly characterized by faster rhythms with little connection to earlier reggae rhythms. Modern dancehall is also known as bashment.'}, {'content': u'Reggae is a music genre first developed in Jamaica in the late 1960s.\n\nWhile sometimes used in a broader sense to refer to most types of Jamaican music, the term reggae more properly denotes a particular music style that originated following on the development of ska and rocksteady. Reggae is based on a rhythm style characterized by regular chops on the off-beat, known as the skank. The tempo is generally slower than that found in ska.       \n\nReggae is a music genre that originated in Jamaica in the late 1960s. While sometimes used in a broad sense to refer to most types of popular Jamaican dance music, the term reggae more properly denotes a particular music style that was strongly influenced by traditional mento and calypso music, as well as American jazz and rhythm and blues, especially the New Orleans R&B practiced by Fats Domino and Allen Toussaint, and evolved out of the earlier genres ska and rocksteady.\n\nStylistically, reggae incorporates some of the musical elements of rhythm and blues, jazz, mento (a celebratory, rural folk form that served its largely rural audience as dance music and an alternative to the hymns and adapted chanteys of local church singing), calypso, African music, as well as other genres. One of the most easily recognizable elements is offbeat rhythms; staccato chords played by a guitar or piano (or both) on the offbeats of the measure. The tempo of reggae is usually slower than ska and rocksteady. The concept of "call and response" can be found throughout reggae music.\n\nThe bass guitar often plays the dominant role in reggae. The bass sound in reggae is thick and heavy, and equalized so the upper frequencies are removed and the lower frequencies emphasized. The guitar in reggae usually plays on the off beat of the rhythm. It is common for reggae to be sung in Jamaican Patois, Jamaican English, and Iyaric dialects. Reggae is noted for its tradition of social criticism and religion in its lyrics, although many reggae songs discuss lighter, more personal subjects, such as love and socializing.\n\nReggae has spread to many countries across the world, often incorporating local instruments and fusing with other genres. Reggae en Espa\xf1ol spread from mainland South American Caribbean from Venezuela and Guyana to the rest of South America. Caribbean music in the United Kingdom, including reggae, has been popular since the late 1960s, and has evolved into several subgenres and fusions. Many reggae artists began their careers in UK, and there have been a number of European artists and bands drawing their inspiration directly from Jamaica and the Caribbean community in Europe. \n', 'name': u'Reggae', 'summary': u'Reggae is a music genre first developed in Jamaica in the late 1960s.\n\nWhile sometimes used in a broader sense to refer to most types of Jamaican music, the term reggae more properly denotes a particular music style that originated following on the development of ska and rocksteady. Reggae is based on a rhythm style characterized by regular chops on the off-beat, known as the skank. The tempo is generally slower than that found in ska.       \n\nReggae is a music genre that originated in Jamaica in the late 1960s.'}, {'content': u"Latin American music or Latin music encompasses rhythms and styles originated or related to Latin America and its influence in the United States and several European countries such as Spain or Portugal. Some critics have defined Latin music as an incorporation of four elements: music style, geography, cultural background of the artist and language. The first of those encapsulates all music styles generated from Latin countries, such as salsa, merengue, tango, bossa nova and bachata; as well as other styles derived from a more mainstream genre, such as Latin pop, rock, jazz and Reggaeton.\n\nGeographically, it usually refers to the Spanish and Portuguese-speaking regions of Latin America but sometimes include Francophone countries of Latin America as well. The origins of Latin music begins with Spain and Portugal's colonization of Latin America in the 16th century. Latin American music is performed in Spanish, Portuguese, and to a lesser extent, French. As a popular genre in the music industry, it is used to describe any Spanish or Portuguese-language genre including those from Spain and Portugal.", 'name': u'Latin', 'summary': u'Latin American music or Latin music encompasses rhythms and styles originated or related to Latin America and its influence in the United States and several European countries such as Spain or Portugal. Some critics have defined Latin music as an incorporation of four elements: music style, geography, cultural background of the artist and language. The first of those encapsulates all music styles generated from Latin countries, such as salsa, merengue'}, {'content': u'Pop rock is a hybrid of pop music and rock music that uses catchy pop style, with light lyrics over top of guitar- or piano- based songs. There are varying definitions of the term, ranging from it being classed as an "upbeat variety of rock music" to a subgenre of pop music or of rock music. Scholars have noted that pop and rock are usually depicted as opposites; the detractors of pop often deride it as a slick, commercial product along with advocates of rock who claim that rock music is a more authentic, sincere form of music. ', 'name': u'Pop Rock', 'summary': u'Pop rock is a hybrid of pop music and rock music that uses catchy pop style, with light lyrics over top of guitar- or piano- based songs. There are varying definitions of the term, ranging from it being classed as an "upbeat variety of rock music" to a subgenre of pop music or of rock music. Scholars have noted that pop and rock are usually depicted as opposites; the detractors of pop often deride it as a slick, commercial product along with advocates of rock who claim that rock music is a more authentic, sincere form of music. '}, {'content': u'Indie rock is a vague term used to identify rock artists that are or were unsigned, or have signed to small record labels, rather than major record labels. It may also describe artists which have a specific "sound", and is therefore a genre, although this label is contested by many.', 'name': u'Indie Rock', 'summary': u'Indie rock is a vague term used to identify rock artists that are or were unsigned, or have signed to small record labels, rather than major record labels. It may also describe artists which have a specific "sound", and is therefore a genre, although this label is contested by many.'}, {'content': u'Freestyle music or Latin Freestyle, also called Latin Hip Hop in its early years, is a form of electronic music which emerged in the early 1980s and declined around the early 1990s.\nThe music first developed primarily in its founding cities New York City and Miami in the early 1980s. Initially, it was a fusion of the vocal styles found in 1970s disco music with the syncopated, synthetic instrumentation of 1980s electro, as favored by fans of breakdancing. Specifically, Freestyle\'s true roots are traced back to Soul Sonic Force\'s "Planet Rock" (1982) and Shannon\'s "Let the Music Play", which debuted in 1983. It was also influenced by sampling, as found in hip hop music. Freestyle music exprienced its peak of commerical and mainstream success from 1987-1990. Hip-Hop, Rap, Rock, Pop and other styles of Dance music such as Eurodance and House caused its decline. A resurgence of Freestyle became in the mid-late 1990s. Freestyle music as since spread to Europe and other U.S. such as San Franscisco. It continues to be popular and successful in New York City and Miami. ', 'name': u'Freestyle', 'summary': u'Freestyle music or Latin Freestyle, also called Latin Hip Hop in its early years, is a form of electronic music which emerged in the early 1980s and declined around the early 1990s.\nThe music first developed primarily in its founding cities New York City and Miami in the early 1980s. Initially, it was a fusion of the vocal styles found in 1970s disco music with the syncopated, synthetic instrumentation of 1980s electro, as favored by fans of breakdancing.'}, {'content': u"Jazz is a musical art form which originated around the beginning of the 20th century in Black communities in the Southern United States from a confluence of African and European music traditions. The style's West African pedigree is evident in its use of blue notes, call-and-response, improvisation, polyrhythms, syncopation, and the swung note of ragtime.\n\nFrom its early development until the present, jazz has also incorporated music from 19th and 20th century American popular music, which is based on European music traditions. The word jazz began as a West Coast slang term of uncertain derivation and was first used to refer to music in Chicago in about 1915.\n\nJazz has, from its early 20th century inception, spawned a variety of subgenres, from New Orleans Dixieland dating from the early 1910s, big band-style swing from the 1930s and 1940s, bebop from the mid-1940s, a variety of Latin-jazz fusions such as Afro-Cuban and Brazilian jazz from the 1950s and 1960s, jazz-rock fusion from the 1970s and later developments such as acid jazz.", 'name': u'Jazz', 'summary': u"Jazz is a musical art form which originated around the beginning of the 20th century in Black communities in the Southern United States from a confluence of African and European music traditions. The style's West African pedigree is evident in its use of blue notes, call-and-response, improvisation, polyrhythms, syncopation, and the swung note of ragtime.\n\nFrom its early development until the present, jazz has also incorporated music from 19th and 20th century American popular music, which is based on European music traditions."}, {'content': u'The term soundtrack refers to three related concepts: recorded music accompanying and synchronized to the images of a motion picture, television program or video game; a commercially released soundtrack album of music as featured in the soundtrack of a film or TV show; and the physical area of a film that contains the synchronized recorded sound.', 'name': 'Soundtrack', 'summary': u'The term soundtrack refers to three related concepts: recorded music accompanying and synchronized to the images of a motion picture, television program or video game; a commercially released soundtrack album of music as featured in the soundtrack of a film or TV show; and the physical area of a film that contains the synchronized recorded sound.'}, {'content': u'neo-soul is a subgenre of soul, usually blending a hybrid of 1970s-influenced soul music with influences from jazz, funk, electronica & hip-hop.  And occassionally African, Latin, rock-n-roll and house music.', 'name': u'Neo-Soul', 'summary': u'neo-soul is a subgenre of soul, usually blending a hybrid of 1970s-influenced soul music with influences from jazz, funk, electronica & hip-hop.  And occassionally African, Latin, rock-n-roll and house music.'}, {'content': u'Trance is a style of electronic dance music that developed in the 1980s. Trance music is generally characterized by a tempo of between 130 and 160 BPM, featuring repeating melodic synthesizer phrases, and a musical form that builds up and down throughout a track. It often features crescendos and breakdowns. Sometimes vocals are also utilized. The style is arguably derived from a combination of largely electronic music such as ambient music, techno, and house. In the early 1980s, the German composer Klaus Schulze composed several albums of experimental, atmospheric space music. Two of his albums from the 1980s include the word "trance" in their titles: Trancefer (1981) and En=Trance (1987). The early trance act Dance 2 Trance though it is likely that both these uses are linked to the perceived ability of a drum beat to induce altered states of consciousness, aka a trance. As this music is almost always played in nightclubs at popular vacation spots and in inner cities, trance can be understood as a form of club music.', 'name': u'Trance', 'summary': u'Trance is a style of electronic dance music that developed in the 1980s. Trance music is generally characterized by a tempo of between 130 and 160 BPM, featuring repeating melodic synthesizer phrases, and a musical form that builds up and down throughout a track. It often features crescendos and breakdowns. Sometimes vocals are also utilized. The style is arguably derived from a combination of largely electronic music such as ambient music, techno, and house.'}, {'content': u"The 1980s was the decade spanning from 1 January 1980 to 31 December 1989. \nThis tag consists of music first released in this time frame.\n\nThe decade began with a backlash against disco music in the United States, and a movement away from the orchestral arrangements that had characterized much of the music of the 1970s. Music in the 1980s was characterized by unheard of electronic sounds accomplished through the use of synthesizers and keyboards, along with drum machines. This made a dramatic change in music.\n\nIn the United States, MTV was launched and music videos began to have a huge effect on the record industry. U.S. pop artists such as Madonna and Michael Jackson mastered the format and turned it into big business.\n\n'New wave' and 'synth-pop' were developed by many British and United States artists and became popular phenomena throughout the decade, especially in the early and mid eighties.\n\nHard rock, heavy metal, 'big hair' bands and glam metal, experienced extreme popularity in 1980s, becoming some of the most dominant music genres of the 1980s.\n\nHouse and techno emerged both in Chicago and Detroit in early 80s and then become mainstream in 1990s.\n\n--Live Aid concert in 1985 containing many artists promotes attention and action to send food aid to Ethiopia whose people were suffering from a major famine.\n\n--The Hip hop scene evolved to become a powerful musical force.\n", 'name': u'80s', 'summary': u'The 1980s was the decade spanning from 1 January 1980 to 31 December 1989. \nThis tag consists of music first released in this time frame.\n\nThe decade began with a backlash against disco music in the United States, and a movement away from the orchestral arrangements that had characterized much of the music of the 1970s. Music in the 1980s was characterized by unheard of electronic sounds accomplished through the use of synthesizers and keyboards, along with drum machines. This made a dramatic change in music.'}, {'content': u'A slow jam is typically a song with an R&B-influenced melody. Slow jams are commonly R&B ballads or just downtempo songs. The term is most commonly reserved for soft-sounding songs with heavily emotional or romantic lyrical content. The common use and possible origin of this term traces back to 1983 when Solar Records group Midnight Star recorded the song "Slow Jam" on their album No Parking On The Dance Floor.', 'name': u'Slow Jams', 'summary': u'A slow jam is typically a song with an R&B-influenced melody. Slow jams are commonly R&B ballads or just downtempo songs. The term is most commonly reserved for soft-sounding songs with heavily emotional or romantic lyrical content. The common use and possible origin of this term traces back to 1983 when Solar Records group Midnight Star recorded the song "Slow Jam" on their album No Parking On The Dance Floor.'}, {'content': u'Funk is an American music genre that originated in the late 1960s when African American musicians blended soul music, soul jazz and R&B into a rhythmic, danceable new form of music. Funk de-emphasizes melody and harmony and brings a strong rhythmic groove of electric bass and drums to the foreground. Funk songs are often based on an extended vamp on a single chord, distinguishing it from R&B and soul songs centered around chord progressions.\nLike much African-inspired music, funk typically consists of a complex groove with rhythm instruments such as electric guitar, electric bass, Hammond organ, and drums playing interlocking rhythms. Funk bands sometimes have a horn section of several saxophones, trumpets, and in some cases, a trombone, which plays rhythmic "hits" or "stabs".\nMany of the most famous bands in the genre also played disco and soul extensively. Funk music was a major influence on the development of disco music, and funk samples were present in most styles of house music and early hip hop music. It is also the main influence of go-go.', 'name': u'Funk', 'summary': u'Funk is an American music genre that originated in the late 1960s when African American musicians blended soul music, soul jazz and R&B into a rhythmic, danceable new form of music. Funk de-emphasizes melody and harmony and brings a strong rhythmic groove of electric bass and drums to the foreground. Funk songs are often based on an extended vamp on a single chord, distinguishing it from R&B and soul songs centered around chord progressions.\nLike much African-inspired music'}, {'content': u"The decade of the 1990s was possibly the most diverse period of pop music in history. Starting soon after the 1980s ended, musical trends quickly shifted from the 1980s standards, most notably the shift from synthpop to House music from the years 1989 to 1991, the replacement of hair metal and classic rock with alternative rock and Grunge, and the popularity of Gangsta rap and the dominance of hip hop in general starting in the early 1990s.\n\nUnited States and Canada\n---------------------------------------------\n\nPop\n------\nModern R&B and urban pop the most powerful forces in the Top 40 from 1992 to 1998. Popular artists include Usher, Aaliyah, R. Kelly, Whitney Houston, TLC, Seal, Jodeci, Mariah Carey SWV, En Vogue, Brandy, Boyz II Men, and Monica.\nTeen pop carries over from the late 1980s into the year 1990, with New Kids on the Block at their peak and Debbie Gibson and Tiffany at the end of their careers. In 1997 teen pop comes back in a much larger way than it ever was in the 1980s with hit-factory groups including the Backstreet Boys and Spice Girls that overshadowed not only the acts of the 1980s like them, but all other music popular in the late 1990s.\nA revival of the singer-songwriter movement of the 1970s, closely connected to Third-wave feminism and the Lilith Fair, this movement lasted up to about 2002 with artists like Norah Jones. Important artists include Alanis Morissette, Edwin McCain, Jewel, Natalie Merchant and Sheryl Crow.\nUnsure pop was a brand of pop that also had R&B and Grunge mixed in. It started in 1993 with bands like Completely Uncomplete, Unamazing Grace, & Great Hiding Place. It became popular in about 1996 when CCMZ & Evil Laugh formed. It ended in 2002 when CCMZ first disbanded.\n\nRock\n--------\nThe rise of the alternative rock sound and the fall of classic rock - 1990s rock was defined by lyrics relating to depression and awareness, and lacked both party songs and complex guitar solos.\nHair metal popular up to the year 1992, when Grunge took its place and Guns N Roses disbanded. The glory days of hair metal ended by 1990, from that point on, it was widely ridiculed and people waited for something new to take its place.\nGrunge, the defining genre of the decade, was popular from 1991 to 1994. Nirvana are considered to have brought both Grunge and alternative rock, which dominates both the 1990s and 2000s rock scenes into the mainstream.\nPop-punk breaks into the mainstream by 1994 with the success of Green Day, The Offspring and Weezer - by the early 2000s this would merge with emotional hardcore and start the 2000s Emo trend.\nBritpop popular in America and Canada in the second half of the 1990s - bands like Oasis, The Verve and Blur take over the grunge scene which transforms into adult contemporary rock and post-grunge.\n\nHip hop\n-----------\nAt the beginning of the 1990s, MC Hammer and Vanilla Ice make hip hop popular to the pop audience, and mark the beginning of hip hop's so far permanent place in pop music.\nBy 1992, hip hop starts to rival rock music with artists like Dr. Dre, Snoop Dogg, Eazy-E, Nas, 2Pac and Notorious B.I.G., all of who made gangsta rap popular on pop radio and had a 27 Club-like status.\nPop rap in the late 1990s leads to the hip hop and Top 40 scenes becoming synonymous by the 2000s.\nAlternative Rap became a popular contrast to gangsta rap, and Pop rap. With artists like De La Soul, A Tribe Called Quest, Digable Planets, and Arrested Development (group)\nPolitical Rap also became popular because of artists like Public Enemy, N.W.A, Paris (rapper), and The Coup\n\nCountry\n------------\nGarth Brooks the most popular artist of the 1990s, selling more concerts than Mariah Carey.\nArtists like Faith Hill, LeAnn Rimes and Tim McGraw bring country music crossover success, see pop country.\n\nEurope\n----------------------------------------------------\n\nRock\n----------\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, the Madchester movement, including bands like the Stone Roses and Happy Mondays, was popular and would influence the twee pop and indie rock of the 1990s and 2000s.\nBritpop would define the United Kingdom scene of the 1990s, and enjoyed international success Down Under and in North America.\n\nPop\n---------\nTeen pop, which lost popularity in the United States in 1991, was popular in Europe throughout the 1990s.\nDance music and techno a strong influence on pop, bands like Eiffel 65 and the Spice Girls being examples.\n\nElectronica\n----------\nTechno and rave music, while popular in clubs in the United States, were popular in and out of clubs in Europe and the United Kingdom.", 'name': u'90s', 'summary': u'The decade of the 1990s was possibly the most diverse period of pop music in history. Starting soon after the 1980s ended, musical trends quickly shifted from the 1980s standards, most notably the shift from synthpop to House music from the years 1989 to 1991, the replacement of hair metal and classic rock with alternative rock and Grunge, and the popularity of Gangsta rap and the dominance of hip hop in general starting in the early 1990s.\n\nUnited States and Canada'}, {'content': u"Country music is a broad term, covering a great many styles of music predominantly created in the United States of America - however there are growing traditions of country music elsewhere, particularly in Canada and Australia.\n\nCountry music is generally characterized by its use of the guitar and its heavily-accented vocals describing life's hardships. A common joke runs that if one plays a country song backwards, the singer's child recovers from an illness, he gets his job back, his wife returns to him and his dog isn't run over by a car.\n\nCommon lyrical themes deal with cowboys and other anti-heroes, often presented as common men and women just trying to make it through the day.\n\nCountry music was an influence on early rock music, along with blues, jazz, and gospel.  Many different varieties of country music have arisen over the years, from the slick production of the Nashville sound to the rougher edges of outlaw country. There have been several cycles from periods of experimentation and fusion with other genres giving way to returns to traditionalism and back again. Recently, there has been a great deal of crossover between country and pop, beginning with Shania Twain in the mid-1990s and continuing through to Carrie Underwood and Taylor Swift. On the other hand, there is also a loosely-defined group of alt-country artists operating outside the mainstream of country and incorporating influences from other genres ranging from folk to punk.", 'name': u'Country', 'summary': u"Country music is a broad term, covering a great many styles of music predominantly created in the United States of America - however there are growing traditions of country music elsewhere, particularly in Canada and Australia.\n\nCountry music is generally characterized by its use of the guitar and its heavily-accented vocals describing life's hardships. A common joke runs that if one plays a country song backwards, the singer's child recovers from an illness, he gets his job back, his wife returns to him and his dog isn't run over by a car."}, {'content': u'Emo is a style of rock music typically characterized by melodic musicianship and expressive, often confessional lyrics. It originated in the mid-1980s hardcore punk movement of Washington, D.C., where it was known as "emotional hardcore" or "emocore" and pioneered by bands such as Rites of Spring and Embrace. As the style was echoed by contemporary American punk bands, its sound and meaning shifted and changed, blending with pop punk and indie rock and encapsulated in the early 1990s by groups such as Jawbreaker and Sunny Day Real Estate. By the mid 1990s numerous emo acts emerged from the Midwestern and Central United States, and several independent record labels began to specialize in the style.\n\nEmo broke into mainstream culture in the early 2000s with the platinum-selling success of Jimmy Eat World and Dashboard Confessional and the emergence of the more aggressive subgenre "screamo". In recent years the term "emo" has been applied by critics and journalists to a variety of artists, including multiplatinum acts such as Fall Out Boy and My Chemical Romance and disparate groups such as Coheed and Cambria and Panic at the Disco.\n\nIn addition to music, "emo" is often used more generally to signify a particular relationship between fans and artists, and to describe related aspects of fashion, culture, and behavior.', 'name': u'Emo', 'summary': u'Emo is a style of rock music typically characterized by melodic musicianship and expressive, often confessional lyrics. It originated in the mid-1980s hardcore punk movement of Washington, D.C., where it was known as "emotional hardcore" or "emocore" and pioneered by bands such as Rites of Spring and Embrace. As the style was echoed by contemporary American punk bands, its sound and meaning shifted and changed, blending with pop punk and indie rock and encapsulated in the early 1990s by groups such as Jawbreaker and Sunny Day Real Estate.'}, {'content': u'Soul music is a music genre that combines rhythm and blues and gospel music, originating in the United States.  According to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, soul is "music that arose out of the black experience in America through the transmutation of gospel and rhythm & blues into a form of funky, secular testifying." The genre occasionally uses improvisational additions, twirls and auxiliary sounds. Catchy rhythms, stressed by handclaps and plastic body moves, are an important feature. Other characteristics are a call and response between the soloist and the chorus, and an especially tense vocal sound.', 'name': u'Soul', 'summary': u'Soul music is a music genre that combines rhythm and blues and gospel music, originating in the United States.  According to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, soul is "music that arose out of the black experience in America through the transmutation of gospel and rhythm & blues into a form of funky, secular testifying." The genre occasionally uses improvisational additions, twirls and auxiliary sounds. Catchy rhythms, stressed by handclaps and plastic body moves, are an important feature.'}, {'content': u'Eurodance refers to a specific style of electronica produced on the European continent beginning in the late 1980s. Eurodance is generally informed by disco, hi-nrg and house music, and performed entirely in the recording studio on synthesizers and drum machines.This genre of music is heavily influenced by the utilization of rich melodic vocals, either exclusively by itself or inclusively with rapped verses. This, combined with cutting-edge synthesizer, strong bass rhythm and melodic hooks establishes the core foundation of Eurodance music. Like it\'s close relative Europop, it\'s usually simple, lightweight, and catchy, with fluffy, repetitive lyrics that don\'t require much translation among listeners who speak different languages. The main difference between Eurodance and Europop is exclusive and pronounced dance-club orientation of the former; while Europop is frequently informed by dance music, it doesn\'t have to be, and when it is, it doesn\'t always fit into dance-club playlists. Most Eurodance artists concentrate on crafting hit singles, with most album releases almost an afterthought. Eurodance has become more underground during the 2010s, as most electronica is closer to electro and techno. \n\nAfter the early 1990s, Eurodance music had split into several categories: "Classic" Eurodance (1990s) \u2013 As noted, often a female vocalist and a male rapper were used for songs within this genre. The music features thicker and more detailed production and is slightly slower than most Eurodance that appeared afterward. This sound features arrangements, production touches, synths, and basslines unique to the early and mid-1990s, and is strongly favoured by those who were fans of Eurodance during that time. \nBubblegum dance \u2013 Essentially the Danish Eurodance version of bubblegum pop. While the instrumental style is similar to "classic" Eurodance, the lyrics tend towards a tongue-in-cheek humour very different from typical "disco" lyrics. Topics tend to be such things as toys, cartoons or video games, with double-entendres and fairytale motifs (for example, Aqua\'s "Barbie Girl"). Bubblegum may use either a chorus or a male rapper/female singer duet, though it tends not to make use of American rappers as classic Eurodance does. \nEurotrance \u2013 Has a more open-ended structure compared to the tightly knit vocals and melodies of "classic" Eurodance. The vocals are sometimes vague or repetitive without verse/chorus structure, often with echo and other effects. Often, eurotrance has a strong synth line with ethereal chords and strong percussion. \n\nSome examples of "original" Eurodance acts are 2 Brothers On The 4th Floor, 2 Unlimited, Alcazar, Alexia, Bad Boys Blue, Cappella, Captain Hollywood Project, Cascada, Centory, Corona, Culture Beat, Dee Monk, Double You, DJ Bobo, Dr. Alban, E-rotic. E-Type, Eiffel 65, Electro Team, First Base, Fun Factory, Ice MC, Imperio, Indra, Infernal, La Bouche, Lobby, Le Click, Magic Affair, Masterboy, Maxx, Playahitty, Real McCoy, Santamaria, Vengaboys and Whigfield.\n\nThese bands included characteristics such as emphasis of the combo female chorus together with male rap performances, leading directly to the duo revival. Each group featured their own signature sound, persona, visual imagery, vocal approach or a combination of any of the above. Solo artists who performed Eurodance include Amber and Haddaway. Rozalla supported Michael Jackson during his European "Dangerous" tour. In 1994, Amber made history becoming the first singer in Eurodance history to be signed to a label as a solo artist, not a singer who is bound to a producer.\n\nCompilation albums, such as the DMA Dance: Eurodance series of compilation albums (1995\u20131997) from Interhit Records and Dance Music Authority magazine, were popular and helped to define the genre as well as to make it accessible in the U.S. and Canada.\n\nSuch groups as Basic Element (also active in the 1990s), Alcazar, Scooter, Ian Van Dahl, Milk Inc., Merzedes Club, Infernal, Special D, Groove Coverage, Santamaria, Cascada, Sylver, Danijay, Eiffel 65, Colonia, and solo artists such as Madonna (e.g. "Hung Up" single), Kate Ryan, Luca Zeta, Gabry Ponte, DJ Aligator, M\xe1ni Svavarsson, Lucas Prata and O-Zone, represent some of the most successful of the second generation of Eurodance artists. Most of them have released hit singles or albums Stateside.\n\nSome US-based musicians are now heavily influenced by Eurodance, most prominently Rihanna. The songs "S&M" and "Only Girl (In the World)" by Barbadian singer Rihanna are strongly influenced by Eurodance music. Both songs peaked atop the Billboard Hot 100 in 2010 and 2011. In 2012, a large number of songs by American artists featured quintessential Eurodance elements (especially synthesizer and strong beats during the chorus, mixed with rapping or vocals for verses). \n', 'name': u'Eurodance', 'summary': u'Eurodance refers to a specific style of electronica produced on the European continent beginning in the late 1980s. Eurodance is generally informed by disco, hi-nrg and house music, and performed entirely in the recording studio on synthesizers and drum machines.This genre of music is heavily influenced by the utilization of rich melodic vocals, either exclusively by itself or inclusively with rapped verses. This, combined with cutting-edge synthesizer, strong bass rhythm and melodic hooks establishes the core foundation of Eurodance music.'}, {'content': u'Rock music is a genre of music started in America. It has its roots in 1940s and 1950s rock and roll and rockabilly, which evolved from blues, country music and other influences. According to the All Music Guide, \u201cIn its purest form, Rock & Roll has three chords, a strong, insistent back beat, and a catchy melody.  Early rock & roll drew from a variety of sources, primarily blues, R&B, and country, but also gospel, traditional pop, jazz, and folk. All of these influences combined in a simple, blues-based song structure that was fast, danceable, and catchy.\u201d Rock usually has a prominent vocal melody, accompanied by guitar, drums, and bass. Many styles of rock music also use keyboard instruments such as organ, piano, mellotron, and synthesizers. Other instruments sometimes utilized in rock include saxophone (originally in the 50s the central instrument), harmonica, violin, flute, French horn, banjo, melodica, and timpani. Also, less common stringed instruments such as mandolin and sitar are used. Rock music usually has a strong back beat, and often revolves around the guitar, either solid electric, hollow electric, or acoustic.\n\nIn the late 1960s, rock music was blended with folk music to create folk rock, blues to create blues-rock and with jazz, to create jazz-rock fusion, and without a time signature to create psychedelic rock. In the 1970s, rock incorporated influences from soul, funk, and latin music. Also in the 1970s, rock developed a number of subgenres, such as soft rock, heavy metal, hard rock, progressive rock, and punk rock. Rock subgenres that emerged in the 1980s included synthpop, hardcore punk and alternative rock. In the 1990s, rock subgenres included grunge, Britpop, indie rock, and nu metal.\n\nA group of musicians specializing in rock music is called a rock band or rock group. Many rock groups consist of a guitarist, lead singer, bass guitarist, and drummer, forming a quartet. Some groups omit one or more of these roles and/or utilize a lead singer who plays an instrument while singing, forming a trio or duo; others include additional musicians such as one or two rhythm guitarists and/or a keyboardist. More rarely, groups also utilize stringed instruments such as violins or cellos, and/or horns like saxophones, trumpets or trombones.', 'name': u'Rock', 'summary': u'Rock music is a genre of music started in America. It has its roots in 1940s and 1950s rock and roll and rockabilly, which evolved from blues, country music and other influences. According to the All Music Guide, \u201cIn its purest form, Rock & Roll has three chords, a strong, insistent back beat, and a catchy melody.  Early rock & roll drew from a variety of sources, primarily blues, R&B, and country, but also gospel, traditional pop, jazz, and folk.'}, {'content': u'The word "acoustic" is derived from the Latin term for the ear canal. Acoustics is therefore the branch of science which studies sound. By derivation, "acoustic music" is that which is made naturally, without the use of electricity, electronics, etc. Think of it as any type of natural sound. It is essentially synonymous with the term "unplugged."\n\nAcoustic includes a broad range of musical genres, the common theme being that the music is played without amps, electronic keyboards, or any instrument which needs to be plugged into an electrical circuit.\n\nThe term originally developed to denote the type of music which is played on an acoustic guitar as opposed to an electric guitar.\n\n\n', 'name': u'Acoustic', 'summary': u'The word "acoustic" is derived from the Latin term for the ear canal. Acoustics is therefore the branch of science which studies sound. By derivation, "acoustic music" is that which is made naturally, without the use of electricity, electronics, etc. Think of it as any type of natural sound. It is essentially synonymous with the term "unplugged."\n\nAcoustic includes a broad range of musical genres, the common theme being that the music is played without amps'}, {'content': u'Hard rock is a loosely defined genre of rock music which has its earliest roots in mid-1960s garage, blues rock and psychedelic rock. It is typified by a heavy use of distorted electric guitars, bass guitar, drums, pianos, and keyboards.\n\nOne of the major influences of hard rock is blues music. American and British rock bands began to modify rock and roll, adding to the standard genre harder sounds, heavier guitar riffs, bombastic drumming and louder vocals. This sound created the basis for hard rock. Early forms of hard rock can be heard in the songs "You Really Got Me" by The Kinks (1964), "My Generation" by The Who (1965), "Helter Skelter" by The Beatles (1968), and "I Feel Free" by Cream (1966).\n\nHard rock emerged with groups of the late-1960s, such as The Who, Deep Purple, Iron Butterfly, Blue Cheer and Led Zeppelin who mixed the music of early rock bands with a more hard-edged form of blues rock and acid rock. Deep Purple helped pioneer the hard rock genre with the albums Shades of Deep Purple (1968), The Book of Taliesyn (1968), and Deep Purple (1969), but they made their big break with their fourth and distinctively heavier album, In Rock (1970). Led Zeppelin\'s eponymous first album, Led Zeppelin (1969), and The Who\'s Live at Leeds (1970), are examples of music from the beginning of the hard rock genre. The blues origins of the albums are clear, and a few songs by well-known blues artists are adapted or covered within them.\n\nLed Zeppelin II (1969), Led Zeppelin\'s second album, was a watershed moment for the identity of hard rock, proving more popular than their third album Led Zeppelin III (1970). While the heavy aspects of their music remained, Led Zeppelin III was more folk rock-oriented than their second. 1971 saw [The Who release their highly-acclaimed album Who\'s Next.\n\nBlack Sabbath\'s first two albums, both released in 1970, are considered as important as any in launching hard rock into the mainstream.\n\nDeep Purple\'s transformation of hard rock continued in 1972 with their album Machine Head, considered one of the first heavy metal albums, although some band members shunned that label. Two songs from Machine Head had great success: "Highway Star" and "Smoke on the Water." The latter song\'s main riff made it, for many, the "signature" Deep Purple song. Nazareth, a band out of Scotland, provided a blend of hard rock which commercialised the genre further with their best selling album, Hair of the Dog, which in turn, influenced numerous other bands. Free released their signature song "All Right Now", which has received massive radio airplay in both the UK and US.\n\nIn 1979, the differences between the hard rock movement and the rising heavy metal movement were highlighted when the Australian hard rock band, AC/DC, released its second-biggest album, Highway to Hell. AC/DC\'s music was based mostly on rhythm & blues and early-1970s hard rock, with the group explicitly repudiating the "heavy metal" tag.\n\nThe late 1980s saw the most commercially successful time period for hard rock. At this time it was the most reliable form of commercial popular music in the United States. Numerous hard rock acts achieved hits in the mainstream charts. One of those hits was the album Slippery When Wet (1986) by Bon Jovi, which spent a total of 8 weeks at the top of the Billboard 200 album chart, sold 12 million copies, and became the first hard rock album to spawn three top 10 singles\u2014two of which reached #1. In addition, the anthem rock album The Final Countdown by Swedish group Europe was released in 1986. It reached #8 on the U.S. charts, while hitting the top 10 in several other countries. ', 'name': u'Hard Rock', 'summary': u'Hard rock is a loosely defined genre of rock music which has its earliest roots in mid-1960s garage, blues rock and psychedelic rock. It is typified by a heavy use of distorted electric guitars, bass guitar, drums, pianos, and keyboards.\n\nOne of the major influences of hard rock is blues music. American and British rock bands began to modify rock and roll, adding to the standard genre harder sounds, heavier guitar riffs, bombastic drumming and louder vocals.'}, {'content': u'Blues is a vocal and instrumental form of music based on the use of "blue notes." It emerged in Black communities of the United States from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads. The use of blue notes and the prominence of call-and-response patterns in the music and lyrics are indicative of African influence. \n\n"Blue notes," also known as "worried notes," are the typically flattened third, fifth, and seventh degrees in a major scale. This is what gives the blues its inherent minor tonality. From performer to performer, or from blues genre to genre, e.g., country blues, the deviation of the "blue note" from the actual scale can be greater.\n\nThe blues influenced much of later American and Western popular music. It became one of the roots of jazz, rhythm and blues, and bluegrass. During the 1960s and 1970s, a hybrid form of the blues, blues rock, developed by combining of blues with various rock and roll forms.', 'name': u'Blues', 'summary': u'Blues is a vocal and instrumental form of music based on the use of "blue notes." It emerged in Black communities of the United States from spirituals, work songs, field hollers, shouts and chants, and rhymed simple narrative ballads. The use of blue notes and the prominence of call-and-response patterns in the music and lyrics are indicative of African influence. \n\n"Blue notes," also known as "worried notes," are the typically flattened third, fifth, and seventh degrees in a major scale.'}, {'content': u'Hip-hop, also spelled hip hop or hiphop is a rhythm focused popular music style, originating from New York in the 70s. The term rap is sometimes used synonymously with hip-hop music. Hip-hop arose when DJs began isolating the percussion break from funk or disco songs for audiences to dance to.\nIt is now seen as a worldwide and popular genre ranging from American Mainstream (e.g. Eminem, Lil Wayne) to British Undergound (e.g. Wiley, EMC Junkie etc)', 'name': u'Hip-Hop', 'summary': u'Hip-hop, also spelled hip hop or hiphop is a rhythm focused popular music style, originating from New York in the 70s. The term rap is sometimes used synonymously with hip-hop music. Hip-hop arose when DJs began isolating the percussion break from funk or disco songs for audiences to dance to.\nIt is now seen as a worldwide and popular genre ranging from American Mainstream (e.g. Eminem, Lil Wayne) to British Undergound (e.g. Wiley, EMC Junkie etc)'}, {'content': u"Classic rock was originally conceived as a radio station programming format which evolved from the album oriented rock (AOR) format in the early-1980s. In the United States, this rock music format now features a large playlist of songs ranging from the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s, with some stations including a limited number of current releases.\n\nThe classic rock stations recreate the sound of Album Oriented Rock (AOR) stations of the 60s-90s (although usually with a much more limited playlist) and appeal mainly to adults, rather than teenagers.  Some classic-rock stations also play a limited number of current releases which are stylistically consistent with the station's sound, such as fitting the vibe of the other rock music.", 'name': u'Classic Rock', 'summary': u'Classic rock was originally conceived as a radio station programming format which evolved from the album oriented rock (AOR) format in the early-1980s. In the United States, this rock music format now features a large playlist of songs ranging from the 1960s, 1970s, 1980s and early 1990s, with some stations including a limited number of current releases.\n\nThe classic rock stations recreate the sound of Album Oriented Rock (AOR) stations of the 60s-90s (although usually with a much more limited playlist) and appeal mainly to adults'}, {'content': u'Alternative rock (also called alt-rock) is a genre of rock music that refers specifically to the punk/new wave-rooted style that emerged in the 1980s and became widely popular in the early-mid 1990s. The term "alternative" was coined in the 1980s to describe punk rock-inspired bands on independent record labels that did not fit into the mainstream genres of the time. As a musical genre, alternative rock consists of various subgenres that have emerged from the independent music scene since the 1980s, such as grunge, Britrock, gothic rock, Grebo/Crusty and indie rock. These genres are unified by their collective debt to the style and/or ethos of punk, which laid the groundwork for alternative music in the 1970s.\n\nThough the genre is considered to be rock, some of its subgenres are influenced by folk music, reggae, electronic music and jazz among other genres. At times alternative rock has been used as a catch-all phrase for rock music from underground artists in the 1980s, all music descended from punk rock (including punk itself, New Wave, and post-punk), and, ironically, for mainstream rock music in general in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nWhile a few artists like R.E.M. and The Cure achieved commercial success and mainstream critical recognition, many alternative rock artists during the 1980s were cult acts that recorded on independent labels and received their exposure through college radio airplay and word-of-mouth. With the breakthrough of Nirvana and the popularity of the grunge and Britpop movements in the early 1990s, alternative rock entered the musical mainstream and many alternative bands became commercially successful.', 'name': u'Alternative Rock', 'summary': u'Alternative rock (also called alt-rock) is a genre of rock music that refers specifically to the punk/new wave-rooted style that emerged in the 1980s and became widely popular in the early-mid 1990s. The term "alternative" was coined in the 1980s to describe punk rock-inspired bands on independent record labels that did not fit into the mainstream genres of the time. As a musical genre, alternative rock consists of various subgenres that have emerged from the independent music scene since the 1980s'}, {'content': u'This is country music that is modern. But still country. But not ancient... modern.', 'name': u'Modern Country', 'summary': u'This is country music that is modern. But still country. But not ancient... modern.'}, {'content': u'New Wave is today a quite broad umbrella term describing popular music from around 1977 to 1986. But originally it was a slim sub genre of Western popular music that arose in the United Kingdom about 1977-78. It had close ties to punk rock and fairly strong influences of the musical style that had been invented and continuously developed throughout the 1970s: reggae.\n\nThe term  New Wave  was first a kind of description of a more musical and lyric wise complex music than punk. It was sometimes ironically used to describe  punk band "who had learned to play their instruments". This is of course not true. The Police, Elvis Costello, The Pretenders, The Beat, The Jam, Blondie, The Cars, Talking Heads etc, could all play before releasing recordings. There were values as anti-racism (that\'s one reason for the reggae connection) and a widespread dissatisfaction with the government Thatcher\'s economic policies. Later came more and more initiatives from artists to start their own record labels\n\nAround 1979-81 there were influences from punk, rock, pop, roots reggae , ska revival (2 tone), dub , very early Beatles songs and world music . Ultimately led the ambition to unite music, internationalism and social engagement that two new wave artists \u2013 Bob Geldof and Midge Ure \u2013 took the initiative to the big help galas for a starving Ethiopia,\n\nIn the early 80s there were strong reactions among the punk and reggae friendly new wavers with left-wing views against counting the bands who used the new synthesizer / electronic technology in their music as new wave bands. But these new synth bands, as New Order, Human League and Depeche Mode would soon be incorporated into the new wave crowd. One reason was that it soon became impossible to separate them. Traditional new wave band enlisted the help of synths, and synth bands made socially critical songs or used their instruments in reggae dub versions. Culture Club was new wave as well as Nina Hagen and Nena. But that does not mean that all 80\'s songs were new wave, which some record companies trying to tell new, young listeners.\n\n\nNew Wave, as a term, has been used to describe all post-punk rock music, yet, it distances itself from other post-punk movements as it displays characteristics common to pop music, rather than the more "arty" post-punk.\n\nAs a genre, it incorporates much of the original punk rock sound and ethos yet it is characterized by greater complexity in both music and lyrics. Common characteristics of New Wave music, aside from its punk influences, include the use of synthesizers and electronic productions, the importance of styling and the arts, as well as a great amount of diversity. As a term, New Wave is often used to describe music which was quirky and eccentric, yet also catchy and pop at heart, incorporating clear melodious hooks. In such a way, its style varies greatly, ranging from 1950s and 60s rock revivalism, ska and reggae-styled music, to synthpop-oriented dance.\n\nNew Wave is seen as one of the definitive genres of the 1980s; at the time, it enjoyed commercial success as several of the major artists and groups of the time were labelled New Wave. The genre became a fixture on MTV, and the popularity of several New Wave artists has been partially attributed to the exposure that was given to them by the channel.In the mid-1980s differences between New Wave and other music genres began to blur. New Wave has enjoyed resurgences since the 1990s, after a "nostalgia" for New Wave swept across the music scene, influencing several artists.The revivals in the 1990s and early 2000s were small, but became popular by 2004; subsequently, the genre has influenced a variety of music genres and is influenced by the same variety.', 'name': u'New Wave', 'summary': u'New Wave is today a quite broad umbrella term describing popular music from around 1977 to 1986. But originally it was a slim sub genre of Western popular music that arose in the United Kingdom about 1977-78. It had close ties to punk rock and fairly strong influences of the musical style that had been invented and continuously developed throughout the 1970s: reggae.\n\nThe term  New Wave  was first a kind of description of a more musical and lyric wise complex music than punk.'}, {'content': u'Dance music is music composed specifically to facilitate or accompany dancing. It can be either a whole musical piece or part of a larger musical arrangement. In terms of performance, the major categories are live dance music and recorded dance music.\n\nDance music works often bear the name of the corresponding dance, e.g. waltzes, the tango, the bolero, the can-can, minuets, salsa, various kinds of jigs and the breakdown. Often it is difficult to know whether the name of the music came first or the name of the dance.\n\nNowadays, The term "dance music" is often used for more commercial forms of electronic music. It is also associated as any form of music is danced to, spanning genres of pop, hip-hop, house, techno, disco, electro and so on.', 'name': u'Dance', 'summary': u'Dance music is music composed specifically to facilitate or accompany dancing. It can be either a whole musical piece or part of a larger musical arrangement. In terms of performance, the major categories are live dance music and recorded dance music.\n\nDance music works often bear the name of the corresponding dance, e.g. waltzes, the tango, the bolero, the can-can, minuets, salsa, various kinds of jigs and the breakdown. Often it is difficult to know whether the name of the music came first or the name of the dance.'}, {'content': u"House music is a style of electronic dance music which originated in Chicago in the 80s. The style was developed by mainly African-American DJs who started experimenting with new editing techniques such as remixing, sampling and new electronic instruments like synthesizers and sequencers. Typical to the genre is a ''four to the floor'' beat, often a low bass and the use of recognizable instrumentation like piano chords and soulful vocals. Eventually it gained popularity in the Detroit and New York club scenes and by the late 80s in Europe. \n\nHouse music is strongly influenced by elements of the early to mid 1970s soul- and funk-infused dance music style of disco. House music takes disco's use of a prominent bass drum on every beat and developed a new style by mixing in a heavy electronic synthesizer bassline, electronic drums, electronic effects, funk and pop samples, and reverb or delay-enhanced vocals.", 'name': u'House', 'summary': u"House music is a style of electronic dance music which originated in Chicago in the 80s. The style was developed by mainly African-American DJs who started experimenting with new editing techniques such as remixing, sampling and new electronic instruments like synthesizers and sequencers. Typical to the genre is a ''four to the floor'' beat, often a low bass and the use of recognizable instrumentation like piano chords and soulful vocals. Eventually it gained popularity in the Detroit and New York club scenes and by the late 80s in Europe. "}, {'content': u'"Pop music" is a broad-term for many different types of music: The term is flexible, and the music labeled "pop" changes frequently. It does, however, usually refer to popular, mainstream music with emphasis on a catchy melody and accessible style.', 'name': u'Pop', 'summary': u'"Pop music" is a broad-term for many different types of music: The term is flexible, and the music labeled "pop" changes frequently. It does, however, usually refer to popular, mainstream music with emphasis on a catchy melody and accessible style.'}, {'content': u'New Age music is music intended to create "sonic spaces," conducive of artistic inspiration, relaxation, and optimism. It is used by listeners for yoga, massage, meditation, and reading as a method of stress management or to create a peaceful atmosphere in their home or other environments, and is often associated with environmentalism and New Age spirituality.\n\nNew age music is an organic form rooted in the synthesis of many different music traditions, typically blending different European, Asian, African and Latin American forms into a unique style, and often involves the pairing of acoustic instruments of many different ethnic origins, as well as electronic instruments.', 'name': u'New Age', 'summary': u'New Age music is music intended to create "sonic spaces," conducive of artistic inspiration, relaxation, and optimism. It is used by listeners for yoga, massage, meditation, and reading as a method of stress management or to create a peaceful atmosphere in their home or other environments, and is often associated with environmentalism and New Age spirituality.\n\nNew age music is an organic form rooted in the synthesis of many different music traditions'}, {'content': u'Indie is a particular sound that has little to do with past associations of independent music. Indie also encapsulates a musical philosophy. Many artists utilize alternative instrumentation, jangling guitars, and may borrow from disparate genres such as folk, dance rock, and hip hop. \n\nThe term \'indie\' is best known as being an abbreviation for the word \'independent\'. This term was once used to differentiate between bands that were on a major record label and those that weren\'t. It also differentiates between an \'independent\' sound and type of music and the more typical top-40 sound that was so prevalent during the 1980s. For example, many of the hair bands and hard rock scene had become very typical in musical composition (melody, chorus, melody, bridge, chorus, etc.). \'Indie\' music may or may not follow this pattern.\n\nFor these reasons, in recent years the term \'indie\' has been applied to bands that have rock sound but aren\'t on a major record label. Bands like Coldplay, The Killers and Razorlight are not classified as being \'indie\' because of this. On the other hand, bands such as Radiohead (who are no longer on a major record label), Pavement, Belle And Sebastian, and Joy Division can be classed as indie using the "independent sound" meaning.\n\nThis term is wildly disputed on last.fm as well as on plenty of forums. People tag everything from Katy Perry to Meat Puppets as being \'indie\'. You may even find some of your trve kvlt black metal bands appearing with an indie tag. As long as they aren\'t on a major record label. This spectrum of tagging shows the depth and arguably the inconsistency of the label. \n', 'name': u'Indie', 'summary': u"Indie is a particular sound that has little to do with past associations of independent music. Indie also encapsulates a musical philosophy. Many artists utilize alternative instrumentation, jangling guitars, and may borrow from disparate genres such as folk, dance rock, and hip hop. \n\nThe term 'indie' is best known as being an abbreviation for the word 'independent'. This term was once used to differentiate between bands that were on a major record label and those that weren't."}, {'content': u'Rap is a vocal style, usually coming together with hip-hop, the musical genre off-shoot of the hip hop culture. Rapping itself, also known as emceeing, MCing, spitting, or just rhyming, is the rhythmic spoken delivery of rhymes and wordplay. Rapping is one of the four pillars of the hip hop culture, along with DJing, graffiti, and breaking.\n\nRap is also considered a separate genre from hip hop in some cases where the artists do not make music compatible with the hip hop culture. Some of these cases include Lil Wayne, Juelz Santana, Lil Jon, 50 Cent, T.I., The Game, and Nelly. Rap music has a general focus on pop, hyphy, and snap beats, while hip hop has a general focus on the other four pillars of hip hop.', 'name': u'Rap', 'summary': u'Rap is a vocal style, usually coming together with hip-hop, the musical genre off-shoot of the hip hop culture. Rapping itself, also known as emceeing, MCing, spitting, or just rhyming, is the rhythmic spoken delivery of rhymes and wordplay. Rapping is one of the four pillars of the hip hop culture, along with DJing, graffiti, and breaking.\n\nRap is also considered a separate genre from hip hop in some cases where the artists do not make music compatible with the hip hop culture.'}, {'content': u'Gangsta rap is a sub-genre of hip hop that reflects the violent lifestyles of some inner-city youths. "Gangsta" is a corruption of the word gangster. The genre was pioneered around 1983 by Ice-T with songs like Cold Wind Madness and Body Rock/Killers, and was popularized by groups like N.W.A in the late 80s. After the national attention that Ice-T & N.W.A received in the late 80s, gangsta rap became the most commercially lucrative subgenre of hip-hop.\n\nThe subject matter inherent in gangsta rap has caused a great deal of controversy. Criticism has come from both left wing and right wing commentators, and religious leaders, who have accused the genre of promoting and glorifying homophobia, violence, profanity, promiscuity, misogyny, rape, street gangs, drive-by shootings, vandalism, thievery, drug dealing, alcohol abuse, substance abuse, and materialism.\n\nSome commentators (for example, Spike Lee in his satirical film Bamboozled) have criticized it as analogous to black minstrel shows and blackface performance, in which both black and white performers were made up to look African American, and acted in a stereotypically uncultured and ignorant manner for the entertainment of audiences. Gangsta rappers often defend themselves by claiming that they are describing the reality of inner-city life, and that they are putting on a persona, portraying a character that behaves in ways that they do not necessarily endorse.\n\n1984-1990\n\nSchoolly D\n\nPhiladelphia MC Schoolly D can probably be credited as the first rapper to use the word "gangster" in one of his songs. In his 1984 12" single "Gangster Boogie"[2] he mentions it with "I shot call a with my gangster lean". He released the 12" single "P.S.K." (short for Park Side Killers) in 1985. In this song, Schoolly D makes direct references to his gang (PSK) as well as describing putting his pistol against another rapper\'s head.[3] Schoolly D is often considered a pioneer in hardcore rap as well as gangsta rap. His fellow Philadelphian, Steady B, also helped pave the way for gangsta rap\'s popularity.\n\nIce-T\n\nIn 1986, Los Angeles based rapper Ice-T released "6 in the Mornin\'", which is often regarded as the first gangsta rap song. Ice-T had been MCing since the early \'80s. In an interview with PROPS magazine Ice-T said: "Here\'s the exact chronological order of what really went down: The first record that came out along those lines was Schoolly D\'s \'P.S.K.\' Then the syncopation of that rap was used by me when I made Six In The Morning. The vocal delivery was the same: \'...P.S.K. is makin\' that green\', \'...six in the morning, police at my door\'. When I heard that record I was like "Oh shit!" and call it a bite or what you will but I dug that record. My record didn\'t sound like P.S.K., but I liked the way he was flowing with it. P.S.K. was talking about Park Side Killers but it was very vague. That was the only difference, when Schoolly did it, it was "...one by one, I\'m knockin\' em out". All he did was represent a gang on his record. I took that and wrote a record about guns, beating people down, and all that with Six In The Morning. At the same time my single came out, Boogie Down Productions hit with Criminal Minded, which was a gangster-based album. It wasn\'t about messages or "You Must Learn", it was about gangsterism."\n\nIce-T continued to release gangsta albums for the remainder of the decade: Rhyme Pays in 1987, Power in 1988 and The Iceberg/Freedom of Speech...Just Watch What You Say in 1989. Ice-T\'s lyrics also contained strong political commentary, and often played the line between glorifying the gangsta lifestyle and criticizing it as a no-win situation.\n\nBoogie Down Productions\n\nBoogie Down Productions released their first single, "Say No Brother (Crack Attack Don\'t Do It)", in 1986. It was followed by "South-Bronx/P is Free" and "9mm Goes Bang" in the same year. The latter is the most gangsta-themed song of the three; in it KRS-1 describes shooting rival weed-dealers after they try to kill him in his home.[5] The album Criminal Minded followed in 1987. Shortly after the release of the album, BDP\'s DJ Scott LaRock was shot and killed. After this BDP\'s subsequent records focused on conscious lyrics instead.\n\nBeastie Boys\n\nThe Beastie Boys, while never credited as gangsta rappers, were one of the first groups to identify themselves as "gangsters", and one of the first popular rap groups to talk about violence and drug and alcohol use. According to Rolling Stone Magazine, their 1986 album Licensed to Ill is "filled with enough references to guns, drugs, and empty sex (including the pornographic deployment of a Wiffleball bat in "Paul Revere") to qualify as a gangsta-rap cornerstone." [6]\n\nThe Beasties\' 1989 album Paul\'s Boutique included the similarly-themed tracks "Car Thief," "Looking Down the Barrel of a Gun," and "High-Plains Drifter." In their early underground days, N.W.A rapped over Beastie Boy tracks for songs such as "My Posse" and "Ill-Legal", and the Beastie Boys\' influence can be seen significantly in N.W.A\'s early albums.[7]\n\nN.W.A\n\nN.W.A released their first single in 1987. They were crucial to the foundations of the genre for introducing more violent lyrics over much rougher beats.Eazy E founded the N.W.A. and the Ruthless Records. "Eazy E\'s first single "Boyz N The Hood" from 1987 is also very similar to Schoolly D\'s P.S.K. song as well. The first blockbuster gangsta album was N.W.A\'s Straight Outta Compton first released in 1988. Straight Outta Compton also established West Coast hip hop as a vital genre, and a rival of hip hop\'s long-time capital, New York City. Straight Outta Compton sparked the first major controversy regarding hip hop lyrics when their song "Fuck Tha Police" earned a letter from FBI Assistant Director, Milt Ahlerich, strongly expressing law enforcement\'s resentment of the song.[8][9] Due to the influence of Ice T and N.W.A, gangsta rap is often credited as being an originally West Coast phenomenon. In 1990, former N.W.A member Ice Cube would further influence gangsta rap with his hardcore, socio-political solo albums.\n\nOthers\n\nThe rap group Run DMC are often credited with popularizing hardcore and abrasive attitudes and lyrics in hip hop culture, and were one of the first rap groups to dress in gang-like street clothing. Their socially conscious lyrics and the influence of rappers like Kool G Rap and Rakim would later influence socially conscious gangsta rappers and hardcore rappers such as Ice Cube and Nas. Rappers such as Big Daddy Kane, Slick Rick, LL Cool J, the group EPMD, and the seminal hardcore group Public Enemy would further popularize hard-hitting, aggressive, often socio-political lyrics, sometimes revolving around street violence, poverty, and gunplay. Aside from N.W.A. and Ice T, early West Coast rappers include Too Short (from Oakland, California), Kid Frost (who was an important Latino MC), and others from Compton, Watts, Long Beach, Los Angeles, Oakland, San Diego and San Francisco. The group Above The Law lead by Cold 187um has played an important role in the gangsta rap movement, spreading a new style as far as Dr Dre did it with N.W.A. and on his solo album The Chronic, in 1992. Kool G Rap used more and more crime-related themes in his lyrics towards the end of the decade.\n\n1990-Present\n\nIce-T\n\nIce-T released one of the seminal albums of the genre, OG: Original Gangster in 1991. It also contained a song by his new thrash metal group Body Count, who released a self titled album in 1992. The group attracted a lot of media attention for the Cop Killer controversy.\n\nHis next album, Home Invasion, was postponed as a result of the controversy, and was finally released in 1993. While it contained gangsta elements, it was his most political album to date. After that, he left Time-Warner records. Ice-T\'s subsequent releases went back to straight gangsta-ism, but were never as popular as his earlier releases. He had alienated his core audience with his involvement in metal, his emphasis on politics and with his uptempo Bomb-Squad style beats during a time when G-funk was popular. He published a book "The Ice Opinion: Who Gives a Fuck?" in 1994.\n\nG-funk and Death Row Records\n\nMain Article: G-Funk In 1992, former N.W.A member Dr. Dre released The Chronic, which further established the dominance of West Coast gangsta rap and Death Row Records, and also began the subgenre of G-funk, a slow, drawled form of hip hop that dominated the charts for some time.Extensively sampling P-Funk bands, especially Parliament and Funkadelic, G-funk was multi-layered, yet simple and easy to dance to, with anti-authoritarian lyrics that helped endear it to many young listeners. Another G-Funk success was Ice Cube\'s Predator album, released at the same time as The Chronic in 1992. It sold over 5 million copies and was #1 in the Charts, despite the fact that Ice Cube wasn\'t a Death Row artist. One of the genre\'s biggest crossover stars was Dre\'s prot\xe9g\xe9 Snoop Doggy Dogg (Doggystyle, 1993), now known as Snoop Dogg, whose exuberant party-oriented themes made songs such as "Gin and Juice" club anthems and top hits nationwide. Tupac Shakur (All Eyez on Me, 1996) has endured as one of the most successful and influential hip hop artists of all time. Snoop and Tupac were both artists on Death Row Records, owned by Dre and Marion "Suge" Knight. Many of Tupac\'s greatest hits sampled or interpolated earlier music by Zapp & Roger.\n\nMafioso rap\n\nMafioso rap is a hardcore hip hop sub-genre which flourished in the 1990s. It is the pseudo-Mafia extension of East Coast hardcore rap, and was the counterpart of West Coast G-Funk rap during the 1990s. In contrast to West Coast gangsta rappers, who tended to depict realistic urban life on the ghetto streets, Mafioso rappers\' subject matter included self-indulgent and luxurious fantasies of rappers as Mobsters, or Mafiosi. These stylized depictions translated to music videos that showcased rappers playing mobster roles.[10] Kool G Rap is generally seen as the creator of the genre [11] with his collaborator DJ Polo with Raekwon and Nas popularizing the genre with their albums Only Built 4 Cuban Linx... and It Was Written. Other East Coast rappers, such as Jay-Z and Notorious B.I.G. began to take on the genre as well. One notable example of the genre came about in 1995 with the debut album from AZ entitled Doe or Die. Several songs (Sugar Hill and Mo\' Money, Mo\' Murder, Mo\' Homicide especially) depicted self indulgent fantasies of living the high life and of the murder of a highly respected Mob Boss.\n\nEast coast gangsta rap\n\nMeanwhile, rappers from New York City, such as Kool G. Rap & DJ Polo (Live and Let Die, 1992, Black Moon (Enta Da Stage, 1993), Wu-Tang Clan (Enter the Wu-Tang (36 Chambers), 1993), Onyx (Bacdafucup, 1993), Mobb Deep (The Infamous, 1995), Nas (Illmatic, 1994), the Notorious B.I.G. (Ready to Die, 1994), Big L (Lifestylez ov da Poor & Dangerous, 1995) and Raekwon (Only Built 4 Cuban Linx, 1995) pioneered a grittier sound known as East Coast hardcore hip hop. B.I.G. and the rest of Puff Daddy\'s Bad Boy Records roster paved the way for New York City to take back chart dominance from the West Coast as gangsta rap continued to explode into the mainstream. It is widely speculated that the "East Coast/West Coast" battle between Death Row Records and Bad Boy Records resulted in the deaths of Death Row\'s Tupac Shakur and Bad Boy\'s Notorious B.I.G. This had a knock-on effect on Death Row itself, which sank quickly when most of its big name artists like Dr. Dre and Snoop Dogg left and it found itself on the receiving end of multiple lawsuits. Dr. Dre, at the MTV Video Music Awards, claimed that "gangsta rap was dead". Although Puff Daddy\'s Bad Boy Entertainment fared better than its West Coast rival, it continued to lose popularity and support of the hip hop fan base with a more mainstream sound, and challenges from Atlanta and, especially, Master P\'s No Limit stable of popular rappers.\nSouthern and midwestern gangsta rap\n\nAfter the deaths of Biggie and Tupac, gangsta rap remained a major commercial force. However, most of the industry\'s major labels were in turmoil, or bankrupt, and new locations sprang up.\n\nAtlanta had been firmly established as a hip hop center by artists such as Goodie Mob and OutKast and many other Southern hip hop artists emerged in their wake, whilst gangsta rap artists achieving the most pop-chart success. Jermaine Dupri, an Atlanta-born record producer and talent scout, had great success after discovering youthful pop stars Kris Kross (Totally Krossed Out, 1992) performing at a mall, and later masterminded a large roster of commercially successful acts on his So So Def label which although mostly weighted towards pop-rap & R&B, also included rap artists such as Da Brat (Funkdafied, 1994), and himself.\n\nMaster P\'s No Limit Records label, based out of New Orleans, also became quite popular, though critical success was very scarce, with the exceptions of some later additions like Mystikal (Ghetto Fabulous, 1998). No Limit had begun its rise to fame with Master P\'s The Ghetto Is Trying to Kill Me! (1994), and subsequent hits by Silkk the Shocker (Charge It 2 Da Game, 1998) and C-Murder (Life or Death, 1998). Cash Money Records, also based out of New Orleans, had enormous commercial success with a very similar musical style and quantity-over-quality business approach to No Limit but were less ridiculed.\n\nMemphis collective Hypnotize Minds, led by Three 6 Mafia and Project Pat, have taken gangsta rap to some of its darker extremes. Led by in-house producers DJ Paul and Juicy J, the label became known for its pulsating, menacing beats and uncompromisingly thuggish lyrics. However, in the mid-2000s, the group began attaining more mainstream popularity, eventually culminating in the Three 6 Mafia winning an Academy Award for the song It\'s Hard Out Here For A Pimp from Hustle and Flow.\n\nMidwest gangsta rap originated in the mid 1990\'s and is dominant in the 2000s. Midwest Hip Hop originated fast-pacing rap. Many midwestern hip hop artists use midwestern gangsta rap in their lyrics and style such as Eminem (Detroit), and Twista(Chicago). Eminem began gangsta rap in the midwest during the late 1990s with his underground album The Slim Shady EP. Later, his major-label debut album, The Slim Shady LP, represented midwestern gangsta rap very strong as it was now in the mainstream. Cleveland based rap group Bone Thugs-N-Harmony also had a monumental impact on the Midwestern gangsta rap scene. The mid-1990s saw Bone metamorphose into an extremely popular commercial rap assemblage with the release of their critically acclaimed album E 1999 Eternal. Their fast, harmonizing vocals (coupled with their fast rap delivery) changed the limitations of gangsta rap. Royce da 5\'9, born and raised in Detroit, also represents Midwest Hip Hop and uses its gangsta rap.\n\nHouston first came on to the national scene in the late 1980s with the violent and disturbing stories told by the Geto Boys, with member Scarface going successfully solo in the mid 90s. In the early 2000s Houston, also known as the "3rd coast", exploded into the forefront of Southern hip hop, with commercially successful acts like Mike Jones, Slim Thug, Lil Flip, Chamillionaire and Paul Wall. UGK now calls Houston home although they are originally from Port Arthur, Texas. UGK which consists of Bun B and Pimp C (deceased) are considered to be Texas underground legends. They have been an enormously influential entity on southern hip hop since the 1980s.\n\nHouston has produced hip hop artists such as Mike Jones, Slim Thug, Lil Flip, Chamillionaire, Paul Wall, Bun B and Pimp C of UGK, Brooke Valentine, Trae, Z-Ro, Big Hawk, Big Pokey, South Park Mexican, Devin the Dude, DJ Screw, Fat Pat, Lil\' Keke, Scarface, E.S.G. and the legendary Geto Boys.\n\nThe Chopped and Screwed genre was developed in Houston, Texas which remains the location most associated with the style. The late DJ Screw, a South Houston DJ, is credited with the creation of and early experimentation with the genre.[citation needed] DJ Screw began making mixtapes of the slowed-down music in the early 1990s and began the Screwed Up Click. This provided a significant outlet for MCs in the South-Houston area, and helped local rappers such as Big Moe, Lil\' Flip, E.S.G., UGK, Lil\' Keke and Z-Ro gain regional and sometimes national prominence.\n\nMainstream era\n\nBefore the late nineties, gangsta rap and hip hop in general, while being extremely popular, had always been seen as a fringe genre that remained firmly outside of the pop mainstream. However, the rise of Bad Boy Records signalled a major stylistic change in gangsta rap (or as it is referred to on the East Coast, hardcore rap), as it morphed into a new subgenre of hip hop which would become even more commercially successful. Ice Cube is seen to have contributed to gangsta rap\'s move towards conquering the pop charts, as he produced albums which included both gritty gangsta narratives and polished, catchy, danceable pop productions entirely aimed at the clubs and at the mainstream pop charts. Between the release of Biggie\'s debut album Ready to Die in 1994 and his follow-up Life after Death in 1997, his sound changed from the darker, sample-heavy production to a cleaner, more upbeat sound fashioned for popular consumption (though the references to guns, drug dealing and life as a thug on the street remained). R&B-styled hooks and instantly recognizable samples of well-known soul and pop songs from the 1970s and 1980s were the staples of this sound, which was showcased primarily in his latter-day work for The Notorious B.I.G. ("Mo Money, Mo Problems"), Mase ("Feels So Good"), and non Bad Boy artists such as Jay-Z ("Can I Get A...") and Nas ("Street Dreams").\n\nAlso achieving similar levels of success with a similar sound at the same time as Bad Boy was Master P and his No Limit label in New Orleans, as well as the New Orleans upstart Cash Money label. A Cash Money artist, The B.G., popularized a catch phrase in 1999 that sums up what the majority of late-nineties and all through the 2000s mainstream hip hop focused on subject-wise: "Bling-Bling." Whereas much gangsta rap of the past had portrayed the rapper as being a victim of urban squalor, the persona of late-nineties mainstream gangsta rappers was far more weighted towards hedonism and showing off how much money they have, the best jewelry, clothes, liquor, and women. Many of the artists who achieved such mainstream success, such as G-Unit and Jay-Z, originated from the gritty East Coast rap scene and were influenced by hardcore artists such as The Notorious B.I.G and Nas. Mase, Jay-Z and Cam\'ron are also typical of the more relaxed, casual flow that became the pop-gangsta norm.\n\nPop-inflected gangsta rap continues to be successful into the 21st century, with many artists deftly straddling the divide between their hip hop audience and their pop audience, such as Remy Ma, Papoose, G Unit, and many others.', 'name': u'Gangsta Rap', 'summary': u'Gangsta rap is a sub-genre of hip hop that reflects the violent lifestyles of some inner-city youths. "Gangsta" is a corruption of the word gangster. The genre was pioneered around 1983 by Ice-T with songs like Cold Wind Madness and Body Rock/Killers, and was popularized by groups like N.W.A in the late 80s. After the national attention that Ice-T & N.W.A received in the late 80s, gangsta rap became the most commercially lucrative subgenre of hip-hop.'}, {'content': u'Indie pop is a genre of alternative rock music that originated in the United Kingdom in the mid 1980s, with its roots in the Scottish post-punk bands on the Postcard Records label in the early \'80s such as Orange Juice and Josef K and the dominant UK independent band of the mid eighties, The Smiths.\n\nWhile the term \u2018indie\u2019 had been used for some time to describe artists on independent labels (and the labels themselves), the key moment in the naming of the genre was the release of NME\'s C86 tape in 1986. Although featuring a wide range of bands including Primal Scream, Bogshed, Half Man Half Biscuit, and The Wedding Present, it over time became shorthand for a genre known by a variety of terms. Initially it was dubbed \'C86\' (after the tape itself), the more ambiguous indie pop, Cutie or a term coined by John Peel: shambling bands. Retrospectively, especially in the United States, the terms twee and twee pop were used, initially ironically, due to what commentators called the "revolt into childhood" of its followers.\n\nMusically its key characteristics were jangling guitars, a love of sixties pop and often fey, innocent lyrics. The UK label Sarah Records and its most popular band The Field Mice, although more diverse than the label indicates, were probably its most typical proponents. It was also inspired by the DIY scene of punk and there was a thriving fanzine, label and club and gig circuit. Scenes later developed in the United States particularly around labels such as K Records. Genres such as Riot Grrrl and bands as diverse as Nirvana, Manic Street Preachers, and Belle and Sebastian have all acknowledged its influence.\n\nIn the mid to late 80s, indie pop was criticized for its tweeness and underachievement but many now argue that C86 and the birth of the genre was a pivotal moment for independent music in the UK. It continues to have a strong following and inspire musicians, not just in the UK but around the world with new labels, clubs and bands devoted to the sound.', 'name': u'Indie Pop', 'summary': u"Indie pop is a genre of alternative rock music that originated in the United Kingdom in the mid 1980s, with its roots in the Scottish post-punk bands on the Postcard Records label in the early '80s such as Orange Juice and Josef K and the dominant UK independent band of the mid eighties, The Smiths.\n\nWhile the term \u2018indie\u2019 had been used for some time to describe artists on independent labels (and the labels themselves), the key moment in the naming of the genre was the release of NME's C86 tape in 1986."}, {'content': u'Electronic music refers to music that emphasizes the use of electronic musical instruments or electronic music technology as a central aspect of the sound of the music. Historically, electronic music was considered to be any music created with the use of electronic musical instruments or electronic processing, but in modern times, that distinction has been lost because almost all recorded music today, and the majority of live music performances, depend on extensive use of electronics. Today, the term electronic music serves to differentiate music that uses electronics as its focal point or inspiration, from music that uses electronics mainly in service of creating an intended production that may have some electronic elements in the sound but does not focus upon them.\n\nContemporary electronic music expresses both art music forms including computer music, experimental music, musique concr\xe8te, and others; and popular music forms including multiple styles of dance music such as techno, house, trance, electro, breakbeat, drum and bass, synth pop, etc.\n\nA distinction can be made between instruments that produce sound through electromechanical means as opposed to instruments that produce sound using electronic components.\n\nExamples of electromechanical instruments are the telharmonium, Hammond organ, and the electric guitar, whereas examples of electronic instruments are a Theremin, synthesizer, and a computer.', 'name': u'Electronic', 'summary': u'Electronic music refers to music that emphasizes the use of electronic musical instruments or electronic music technology as a central aspect of the sound of the music. Historically, electronic music was considered to be any music created with the use of electronic musical instruments or electronic processing, but in modern times, that distinction has been lost because almost all recorded music today, and the majority of live music performances, depend on extensive use of electronics.'}, {'content': u'Folk music can have a number of different meanings, including:\n\nTraditional music: The original meaning of the term "folk music" was synonymous with the term "Traditional music", also often including World Music and Roots music; the term "Traditional music" was given its more specific meaning to distinguish it from the other definitions that "Folk music" is now considered to encompass.\nFolk music can also describe a particular kind of popular music which is based on traditional music. In contemporary times, this kind of folk music is often performed by professional musicians. Related genres include Folk rock, Indie folk, Neofolk, Progressive folk, pop folk, turbofolk, and chalga music.\nIn American culture, folk music refers to the American folk music revival, music exemplified by such musicians as Woody Guthrie, Pete Seeger, Bob Dylan, Leonard Cohen and Joan Baez, who popularized, encouraged and revolutionized in many ways  the lyrical style in the 1950s and 1960s.\n', 'name': u'Folk', 'summary': u'Folk music can have a number of different meanings, including:\n\nTraditional music: The original meaning of the term "folk music" was synonymous with the term "Traditional music", also often including World Music and Roots music; the term "Traditional music" was given its more specific meaning to distinguish it from the other definitions that "Folk music" is now considered to encompass.\nFolk music can also describe a particular kind of popular music which is based on traditional music.'}]